# S3 Helper

A simplified interface to AWS S3.

**NOTE**: this is a work in progress and not all methods are supported yet. so if you need a specific methods, please let me know or feel free to enhance ad submit your code.

## Installation

See [Installation section in main page](README.md#installation) for details.

## Authorization

See [Authorization section in main page](README.md#authorization) for details.

## Usage

### Create a client instance

To create a client instance, you need to call the "instance" static method.
It gets the region as an optional parameter (optional) (if not provided, it will be taken from the environment variable AWS_REGION)
It returns a singleton instance of the client.

E.g.:

```javascript
const { S3Client } = require('@danielyaghil/aws-helpers');
const client = S3Client.instance();
```

### Put an object inside a bucket

to put an object inside a bucket, you need to call the "put" method with the bucket name, object key, acl and object content as parameters:

- object key is the name of the object inside the bucket; it can include folders (e.g. "folder1/folder2/object-name") and the object name should include the file extension so that the content type could be deduced (e.g. "object-name.txt")
- ACL can be on of the following: "private", "public-read", "public-read-write", "authenticated-read", "aws-exec-read", "bucket-owner-read", "bucket-owner-full-control"
- The object body can be a string or a readable stream.  
  It returns a boolean value indicating if the operation was successful or not.

E.g.:

```javascript
const { S3Client } = require('@danielyaghil/aws-helpers');

const client = S3Client.instance();
const success = await client.put(
  'bucket-name',
  'object-name.txt',
  'private',
  'Example text to be saved in s3'
);
```

### Get an object from a bucket

To get an object from a bucket, you need to call the "get" method with the bucket name and object key as parameters.  
Optionally you can add the output type as a third parameter ("txt", "byte-array" or "stream") if not provided, the output type will be "stream".  
It returns the object content as a string, byte array or readable stream (depending on the requested output type).

E.g.:

```javascript
const { S3Client } = require('@danielyaghil/aws-helpers');
const client = S3Client.instance();
const content = await client.get('bucket-name', 'object-name.txt', 'txt');
```

### List objects in a bucket

To list objects in a bucket, you need to call the "list" method with the bucket name as a parameter.

Optionally you can add:

- a prefix as a second parameter to filter the objects by a specific prefix (default: '').
- key to start from as a third parameter (default: '').
- the maximum number of objects to return as a fourth parameter (default: 1000).

It returns an array of objects, each object contains the object key, the object size, last modified date and the object etag.

E.g.:

```javascript
const { S3Client } = require('@danielyaghil/aws-helpers');
const client = S3Client.instance();
const objects = await client.list('bucket-name');
const objectsWithPrefix = await client.list('bucket-name', 'folder/');
const objectsWithPrefixAndKey = await client.list(
  'bucket-name',
  'folder/',
  'key'
);
const objectsWithPrefixAndKeyAndMax = await client.list(
  'bucket-name',
  'folder/',
  'key',
  10
);
```

### Delete an object from a bucket

To delete an object from a bucket, you need to call the "delete" method with the bucket name and object key as parameters.  
It returns a boolean value indicating if the operation was successful or not.

E.g.:

```javascript
const { S3Client } = require('@danielyaghil/aws-helpers');
const client = S3Client.instance();
const success = await client.delete('bucket-name', 'object-name.txt');
```

## Full working sample code

You can find full working sample code [here](../samples/sample-s3.js).  
To validate how to run the sample, please refer to the [main samples README](../samples/README.md).
